Chronicle allows you to
search and filter log data.
In this video,
we'll explore using
Chronicle's search field
to locate an event.
Chronicle uses the
YARA-L language
to define rules for detection.
It's a computer
language used to create
rules for searching
through ingested log data.
For example, you can use YARA-L
to write a rule to detect
specific activities related to
the exfiltration
of valuable data.
Using Chronicle's search field,
you can search for fields
like hostname, domain,
IP, URL, email,
username, or file hash.
Using the search field, you can
enter different
types of searches.
The default method of
search is using UDM search,
which stands for
Unified Data Model.
It searches through
normalized data.
If you can't find the
data you're looking
for searching the
normalized data,
you have the option of
searching raw logs.
Raw log search searches through
the logs which have
not been normalized.
From our earlier discussion
on the SIEM process,
you may recall that raw logs get
processed during the
normalization step.
During normalization, all
of the relevant information
from raw logs gets
extracted and formatted,
making the data
easier to search.
A reason we might need to
search raw logs is to find
data that may not have been
included in the normalized logs,
like specific fields
which have not been
normalized, or to troubleshoot
data ingestion problems.
Let's examine a UDM search
for a failed login
using Chronicle.
First, let's click on
the structured query
builder icon, so
that we can perform
a UDM search.
I'll type in the search:
metadata.event_type = "USER_LOGIN"
AND security_result.action
= "BLOCK"
Let's break down
this UDM search.
Since we are searching
for normalized data,
we need to specify a search
that uses UDM format.
UDM events have a set
of common fields.
The metadata.event_type
field
details the event's type.
Here, we're asking
Chronicle to find
an authentication activity
event, a user login.
Next, there's AND,
which is a logical
operator that tells
the search engine to
contain both terms.
Finally, the
security_result.action field
specifies a security action
such as allow or block.
Here, the action is BLOCK.
This means the user login
was blocked or failed.
Now, we'll press
the query button.
We're going to focus on
searching normalized data.
We're presented with a screen
with the search results.
There's lots of
information here.
Under UDM Search,
we can observe our search terms.
There's also a bar
graph timeline
visualizing the failed
login events over a period.
At a quick glance, this gives us
a snapshot of the failed
login activity over time,
allowing us to spot
possible patterns.
Under the timeline, there's
a list of events with
timestamps associated
with this search.
Under each event,
there's an asset,
which is the name of a device.
For example, this event shows
a failed login for
a user named alice.
If we click the
event, we can open up
the raw log associated
with the event.
We can interpret these
raw logs for more detail
about the event's activity
during the investigation.
To the left, there's
Quick Filters.
These are additional
fields or values that
we can use to filter
the search results.
For example, if we
click: target.ip,
we are given a list
of IP addresses.
If we click one of
these IP addresses,
we can filter the search
results to contain
only this target IP address.
This helps us find specific data
we're looking for and helps
us save time in the
process.
Great work! Now you know how to perform
a search using Chronicle.
In the upcoming activity,
you'll have the chance
to perform searches
using the SIEM tools
we've just discussed.